# Solidity deployed bytecodes comparison

The idea for this repo was inspired by a StackOverflow question [Why the bytecodes for the same smart contract in testnet explorer and Remix/solcjs are different?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73379174/why-the-bytecodes-for-the-same-smart-contract-in-testnet-explorer-and-remix-solc)

These Hardhat tests compare deployed bytecodes generated by:
- Remix tool
- Hardhat framework
- solc.js compiler

which use the same Solidity compiler parameters:

- Solidity version: 0.8.17
- EVM version: istanbul
- Optimization: true
- Runs: 200

Tests location: `test/MegaHonk.test.js`

## Install
```shell
npm install
npx hardhat compile
```

## Run tests
```shell
npx hardhat test
```

## What do these tests mean:
1. If I compile the smart contract on **Remix**, then deploy to **Rootstock testnet**, the deployed bytecode in Remix artifacts and the deployed bytecodes on the blockchain are identical
2. If I compile the same smart contract using **Hardhat**, its deployed bytecode is different from the **Remix** deployed bytecode with the same compiler parameters.
3. If I compile the same smart contract using **solcjs**, its deployed bytecode is different from the **Remix** deployed bytecode with the same compiler parameters.
4. Deployed bytecodes produced by **Hardhat** and **solcjs** with the same versions and parameters don't match either. 


## Conclusion:
Remix, Hardhat and solcjs Solidity compilers with the same Solidity configuration parameters produce different bytecodes. The bytecode deployed on the blockchain will match the deployed bytecode of the compiler you used during the deployment. It means that if you compiled a smart contract with Remix, the Remix bytecode will be on the blockchain. And it won't match the bytecodes produced by other compilers.